---
title: Open CAS Linux - Admin Guide
last_updated: April 29, 2019
toc: true
permalink: guide_advanced_options.html
---

Advanced Options
================

Many-to-one Option
------------------

You can add multiple core devices to a single cache device. An example
*opencas.conf* demonstrates:

>> \#\# Caches configuration section
>>
>> [caches]
>>
>> \#\# Cache ID Cache device Cache mode Extra fields (optional)
>>
>> 1 /dev/nvme0n1p5 wb ioclass_file=/etc/intelcas/ioclass-config.csv
>>
>> \#\# Core devices configuration
>>
>> [cores]
>>
>> \#\# Cache ID Core ID Core device
>>
>> 1 1 /dev/sda
>>
>> 1 2 /dev/sdb
>>
>> 1 3 /dev/sdc
>>
>> 1 4 /dev/sdd

This example shows 4 core devices paired with a single NVMe drive partition.

For each core device added, a cache-core pair will be created with the following
naming format:

-   */dev/intelcas1-1* will be created associated with *\<cache_id\> =1*, first
   core device.   (For example: */dev/sda*)

-   */dev/intelcas1-2* will be created associated with *\<cache_id\>=1*, second core device.  
   (For example: */dev/sdb*)

Display cache listing via casadm -L:

> \# casadm -L
> type id disk status write policy device
>
> cache 1 /dev/nvme0n1p5 Running wb -  
> ├core 1 /dev/sda Active - /dev/intelcas1-1  
> ├core 2 /dev/sdb Active - /dev/intelcas1-2  
> ├core 3 /dev/sdc Active - /dev/intelcas1-3  
> └core 4 /dev/sdd Active - /dev/intelcas1-4  

In some instances, like sequential read on a newly created cache device, the
cache device may become overloaded, causing slower performance, and the queue
may increase, consuming system buffers. To avoid this issue, it may be necessary
to manually force an optimal queue size for the cache write queue specific to a
use case. The default max_writeback queue_size value is 65,536. Another
parameter may also be used to determine the unblock threshold for this queue:
writeback_queue_unblock_size (default value is set at 60,000). You can use the
following command to overwrite this default value and set a custom max_writeback
queue_size or alter the writeback_queue_unblock_size threshold:

>   \# modprobe cas_cache max_writeback_queue_size=\<size\>
>   writeback_queue_unblock_size=\<size\>

   or

>   \# insmod cas_cache max_writeback_queue_size=\<size\>
>   writeback_queue_unblock_size=\<size\>

The above examples are each a single line. Open CAS Linux is now enabled on the
system and files to be accelerated can be written to */mnt/cache1.*

Keep in mind that the modinfo command only displays the default values of these
parameters. To check the actual values of the parameters that you have modified,
you can do so by examining /sys/modules/intelcas/parameters/\* files:

>>   /sys/module/cas_cache/parameters/max_writeback_queue_size  
>>   /sys/module/cas_cache/parameters/writeback_queue_unblock_size.

If you are not seeing the correct values in the sysfs files, it is most likely
because you have not unloaded the Open CAS Linux module prior to running modprobe.
The modprobe command does not return any errors when you try to run it against a
module that is already loaded.

Multi-Level Caching
-------------------

Open CAS Linux supports multi-level caching. For example, this enables the user to
cache warm data from slow HDD media to faster SSD media, and then cache hot data
from the SSD to an even faster media such as a RAMdisk. In this case, a fixed
portion of DRAM will be allocated for buffering, and the SSD will remain as a
fully inclusive cache so DRAM cache data will always be available on the SSD.

To set up a RAMdisk-based cache level, do the following:

-  Create a RAMdisk (100 MB or larger).

-   In RHEL, for example, the default RAMdisk size is 8 MB so it must be
    configured to be equal or greater than 40 MB.

-  For kernels prior to 3.0, modify *grub.conf* and change the ramdisk_size
    parameter to the desired capacity in KiB. Example highlighted below in
    **bold**:

| \# grub.conf generated by anaconda \# \# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file \# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that \#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg. \#          root (hd0,0) \#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/hda5 \#          initrd /initrd-version.img \#boot=/dev/hda default=0 timeout=10 splashimage=(hd0,0)/grub/splash.xpm.gz title Red Hat Linux (2.4.20-20.9)         root (hd0,0)         kernel /vmlinuz-2.4.20-20.9 ro root=LABEL=/ hdc=ide-scsi ramdisk_size=102400         initrd /initrd-2.4.20-20.9.img |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|


-  For kernels 3.0 or newer, issue the following command to increase the
    RAMdisk size to 100 MB:

>   \# modprobe brd rd_size=102400

-  Do not format or create a file system or mount the RAMdisk, at this time.

-  Do not use */dev/ram0* since it is reserved by the kernel. Use any available
    RAMdisk */dev/ram1* or greater. We will use */dev/ram1* in this example.

-  Reboot the system and start a fresh Open CAS Linux install, if necessary.

-  Create the SSD caching framework, where */dev/sdc* is your SSD cache device:

>   \# casadm -S -d /dev/sdc

-  Add a core device (*/dev/sdb*) mapping to the SSD caching framework:

>   \# casadm -A -i 1 -d /dev/sdb

-  Create the RAMdisk caching framework:

>   \# casadm -S -d /dev/ram1 -i 2

-  Add the tiered core device (*/dev/intelcas1-1*) mapping to the RAMdrive
    caching framework:

>   \# casadm -A -i 2 -d /dev/intelcas1-1

-  Create the file system from the newly created tiered cache drive:

>   \# mkfs -b 4096 -t ext3 /dev/intelcas2-1

   or

>   \# mkfs.ext4 -b 4096 /dev/intelcas2-1

   or

>   \# mkfs.xfs -f -i size=2048 -b size=4096 -s size=4096 /dev/intelcas2-1

-  Create a cache directory and mount the cache to it:

>   \# mkdir -p /mnt/cache1  
>   \# mount /dev/intelcas2-1 /mnt/cache1

The newly created and mounted cache drive */mnt/cache1* is ready for use.

By default, any RAMdisk tiered buffering setup is volatile and will need to be
set up again following a system restart. Any data should remain in the SSD
following a clean restart. See Stopping Cache Instances for details on stopping
Open CAS Linux.

*Caution:* If the RAMdisk cache tier is started in write-back mode and there is
a dirty shutdown, data loss may occur.

Linux\* LVM support
-------------------

Open CAS Linux supports LVM in two ways.

1.  LVM physical volumes can be created directly on Open CAS Linux devices. This
    allows creation of volume groups thereon, and later creation of logical
    volumes on those groups.

    With older versions of LVM, you must first create a partition on the core
    device (eg. if the core device is /dev/sdc, you must create /dev/sdc1) prior
    to accelerating that device with Open CAS Linux device and creating the physical
    volume or creation of the logical volume will fail. If you see the following
    warning: *“WARNING: Ignoring duplicate config node: types (seeking types);
    Found duplicate PV”*, then you must use this workaround.

2.  LVM logical volumes can be used as core devices, just like regular
    partitions.

LVM must be configured in the system before using it with Open CAS Linux, which is
outside of the scope of this document.

Ensure Open CAS Linux devices are listed as acceptable block device types in
*/etc/lvm/lvm.conf* by adding the following line to the advanced settings:

>>   \# Advanced settings.  
>>   \# List of pairs of additional acceptable block device types found  
>>   \# in /proc/devices with maximum (non-zero) number of partitions.  
>>   *types = [ "inteldisk", 16 ]*

After the LVM is configured and an Open CAS Linux device has been created (see
Configuring Intel® CAS starting on page 17 for further details) a physical
volume can be created thereon:

>   \# pvcreate /dev/intelcas1-1   

or if creating the physical volume from a partition on the Open CAS Linux device  
> \#pvcreate /dev/intelcas1-1p1

Additionally, after the Open CAS Linux PV volume has been created it is imperative
the underlying core device is excluded for use by LVM. Excluding the device will
avoid LVM warnings about duplicate metadata between the exported Open CAS Linux drive
and the core drive. It will also ensure Open CAS Linux starts cleanly after system
reboots by preventing LVM from opening the core drive when it has been already
opened exclusively by Open CAS Linux. To exclude the core drive from LVM populate the
global_filter variable in the */etc/lvm/lvm.conf* file with the core drive’s
unique storage identifier (WWN). For example, to exclude the core device with
unique identifer *wwn-0x5000c50066d547a9-part1* add the following lines to
*/etc/lvm/lvm.conf* :

>>   \# Exclude the core device for use by LVM using a global filter.  
>>   \# Use the full WWN path in the format [“r\|WWN\|”]  
>>   *global_filter = [ "r\|/dev/disk/by-id/wwn-0x5000c50066d547a9-part1\|" ]*

After the physical volume is created, the user can create a volume group, for
example: *vg_cas*, and then a logical volume on it, for example: *lv_cas*:

>   \# vgcreate vg_cas /dev/intelcas1-1  
>   \# lvcreate -n lv_cas -l 100%FREE vg_cas

   Create and mount LVM filesystem to “*vfs_cas*”:

>   \# mkfs.ext4 \<-b 4096\> /dev/vg_cas/lv_cas  
>   \# mkdir -p /mnt/vfs_cas  
>   \# mount /dev/vg_cas/lv_cas /mnt/vfs_cas

  To remove the LVM device, use the following steps:

>   \# umount /mnt/vfs_cas  
>   \# vgchange -an vg_cas  
>   \# casadm -R -i \<cache_id\> -j \<core_id\>  
>   \# casadm -T -i 1

Dynamic logical volume reduction or extension is not automatically supported
(e.g. vgreduce or vgextend). The user must remove the Open CAS Linux device (e.g.
*cas1-1*) as the physical volume, perform the necessary size changes and
then recreate the physical volume based on the Open CAS Linux device. Consult LVM man
pages and web wikis for details on how to use and manage LVMs.

Trim Support
------------

The trim command (known as TRIM in the ATA command set, and UNMAP in the SCSI
command set) allows an operating system to inform an SSD which blocks of data
are no longer considered in use and can be wiped internally. TRIM is enabled by
default and supported by Open CAS Linux for Intel SSDs. When a user or application
deletes data, Open CAS Linux will free the cache lines associated with that data when
TRIM is used. This avoids the time required to flush that data to the backend
storage such as hard drives.

In order to take advantage of this feature, the Linux file system has to be
configured so TRIM requests are properly sent to Open CAS Linux for processing. The
configuration consist of mounting the file system with the discard option, which
applies to most file systems, such as ext4 or xfs.

The following command is an example:

>   \# mount -o discard /dev/intelcas1-1 /mnt

Atomic Writes
-------------

Some Intel(R) Data Center SSDs have an Extended LBA feature called Variable Sector
Size (VSS). Open CAS Linux takes advantage of this feature to write user data and
cache metadata in one write request, as opposed to two, reducing the number of
writes to cache devices, thereby enhancing performance and increasing drive
endurance.

Atomic Writes are supported on Intel NVMe drives which support VSS. Current
examples are:

-  P4800x Intel(R) Optane(TM) SSD

-  P3700/P3600/P3500/P3520 NVMe drives.

The performance improvements are especially useful in write-back mode, which
requires two writes (one for user data and the second for metadata updates).
During a recovery procedure, Open CAS Linux makes use of this metadata to recover
user data (for example, in case of power-failures).

To take advantage of this feature, the Intel SSD must be properly formatted
prior to using with Open CAS Linux.  
The command syntax is:

>   \# casadm -N -F \<MODE\> -d \<DEVICE\> [option. . .]

   Or

>   \# casadm --nvme --format \<MODE\> --device \<DEVICE\> [option. . .]

   For example:

>   \# casadm -N -F atomic -d /dev/nvme0n1

**NOTE:** To use this feature, the Intel(R) SSD used for caching must be dedicated
to Open CAS Linux only. In other words, the SSD cannot be partitioned to be used for
other purposes such as Ceph journals, etc.

**NOTE:** Atomic writes are only supported in RHEL 7.5 systems.

**NOTE:** Reboot the server after formatting the NVMe\* devices and before any
further changes are made to the system.

Kernel Module Parameters
------------------------

Following is a list of available system and kernel parameters that can be
modified to further improve the performance of certain applications. These
parameters should not be modified without advanced tuning expertise and a
thorough knowledge of the workload. Please contact Intel support for further
details.

The parameters are: unaligned_io, seq_cut_off_mb, metadata_layout, and
use_io_scheduler.

*   **unaligned_io:** This parameter enables user to specify how IO requests
    unaligned to 4KiB should be handled. This parameter should be changed if
    caching such requests cause performance drop.

    +   Possible values: 0 - handle unaligned requests using PT mode, or 1 - handle
        unaligned requests using current cache mode (default)

*   **seq_cut_off_mb:** This parameter sets the default seq-cutoff value. Once
    this value is set, then caching started and core(s) added, cores will by
    default have their seq-cutoff parameter set to this value. Setting
    non-default value is done using --set-param -n seq-cutoff. Value is
    expressed in **megabytes**. Sequential cut off disables caching of
    sequential IO requests. If Open CAS Linux detects sequential data with size above
    value controlled by this parameter it stops caching this data.

    +   Possible values: 0 - sequential cut off is disabled, 1 or larger -
        sequential cut off threshold in megabytes (default is 1)

*   **metadata_layout:** This parameter enables user to specify layout of
    metadata on SSD. This is an advanced parameter for **controlling** Open CAS Linux
    internal metadata layout.

    + Possible values: 0 - striping (default), or 1 - sequential

*   **use_io_scheduler:** This parameter enables user to specify how IO requests
    are handled - if IO scheduler will be used or not. **User** can disable IO
    scheduler on Open CAS Linux device if there is another block device with its own
    scheduler on top of it (for example LVM). This parameter has no effect for
    write-back mode. 

    +  Possible values: 0 - handle IO requests in application context, thus omit IO
       scheduler, or 1 - handle IO using IO scheduler (default)

The parameters can only be changed during module loading and must be added to
the system startup so they would take effect upon reboots. To change the values
of these parameters without modifying Open CAS Linux startup files, you can create a
configuration file in */etc/modprobe.d* directory. For example, on a RHEL 7.3
system, create the file */etc/modprobe.d/cas_cache.conf* with the following
content, then restart Open CAS Linux or reboot the system:

> \# cat /etc/modprobe.d/cas_cache.conf
>
> options cas_cache unaligned_io=0 seq_cut_off_mb=10

**NOTE:** The example above may not apply to your specific Operating System.
Please see the appropriate documents for your operating system for properly
modifying these parameters.
